# TensorFlow

TensorFlow represents tensors as n-dimensional arrays. Tensor is a generalization of vectors and matrices to potentially higher dimensions. Vectors can have any number of dimensions

- 1d is a number (scalar)
- 2d is a 2d graph with x and y numbers
- 3d is a graph with x, y and z numbers
- 4d is image data or video data

TensorFlow programs work by building a graph of Tensor objects that details how tensors are related

Tensors have a data type and a shape

- Data types: float32, int32, string, etc
- Shape describes the dimension of data

## Creating a Rank 0 Tensor

```jsx
import tensorflow as tf

string = tf.Variable('this is a string', tf.string)
number = tf.Variable(324, tf.int16)
floating = tf.Variable(3.567, tf.float64)
```

Here, first argument is the object and 2nd argument is the data type. These 3 tensors one dimensional. They are also called scalars (rank 0 tensors)

Rank is the number of dimensions involved in the tensor

## Creating High Rank Tensor

```jsx
rank1_tensor = tf.Variable([‘Test’], tf.string)
rank2_tensor = tf.Variable([[‘Test’, ‘ok’], [‘Test’, ‘Yes’]], tf.string)
```

Here, rank2_tensor has a list inside a list (nested list). This tensor is a matrix

## Finding the Rank of a Tensor

```jsx
tf.rank(rank2_tensor)
tf.rank(rank1_tensor)
```

Here, rank of rank2_tensor is 2 while rank of rank1_tensor is 1

## Finding the Shape of a Tensor

```jsx
rank2_tensor.shape
```

Here, shape of rank2_tensor is (2, 2). Here, we have 2 numbers because this is a rank 2 tensor.

This means there are 2 items inside and each of those items also have 2 items inside

(3, 4, 2) means there are 3 items and they have 4 items each which has 2 items each. Here, we have 3 numbers because this is a rank 3 tensor.

Items of same level should have same number of items each

Shape of a rank 0 tensor is ()

## Changing Shape of a Tensor (Reshaping)

```jsx
tensor1 = tf.ones([1, 2, 3])
tensor2 = tf.reshape(tensor1, [2, 3, 1])
tensor3 = tf.reshape(tensor2, [3, -1])
```

tf.ones() creates a shape [1, 2, 3] tensor full of ones

[1, 2, 3] means 1 list has 2 lists and those 2 lists have 3 lists each

Both former and reshaped tensors should have same number of elements

In the last line, -1 is used to let tensor calculate the size of that place which will result in (3, 2) because 3*2 is 6

## Types of Tensors

Most common types,

- Variable
- Constant
- Placeholder
- SparseTensor

All these tensors are immutable (can’t change the value) except variables

## Evaluating Tensors

Evaluating tensor means getting its value. Sometimes, we have to run a ‘session’ to evaluate a tensor. 

This is how it’s done

```jsx
with tf.Session() as sess:
    tensor1.eval()
```

.Session() creates a session using default graph 

Here, we evaulate tensor1 variable that’s stored in default graph which holds all operations not specified to any other graph

## TensorFlow Core Learning Algorithms

4 main algorithms will be discussed here

- Linear regression
- Classification
- Clustering
- Hidden markov models